improve the appsec configuration documentation (#856)
crowdsecurity/crowdsec-docs: crowdsec-docs/docs/appsec/configuration.md

sidebar_position: 6
---

## Overview

This section covers the detailed configuration options for the CrowdSec AppSec Component. 

**Prerequisites**: 
- Familiarity with [AppSec concepts](/appsec/intro.md)
- Basic AppSec setup completed (see Getting Started guides)

The AppSec Component configuration consists of three main parts:

>  - **[Acquisition configuration](/log_processor/data_sources/appsec.md)**: Defines which port the AppSec Component listens on and which AppSec configurations to load <!-- Fix linked page to ie. speak about appsec_configs-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **[Acquisition configuration](/log_processor/data_sources/appsec.md)**: Defines which port the AppSec Component listens on and which AppSec configurations files to load <!-- Fix linked page to ie. speak about appsec_configs-->
```

 - **AppSec configurations**: Define which rules are loaded and how they behave, along with [hooks](/appsec/hooks.md) for runtime customization
 - **[AppSec rules](/appsec/rules_syntax.md)**: The actual detection signatures that identify and block malicious requests

## Acquisition Configuration

> ### Multiple AppSec Configurations

Reviewer: I don't understand what you mean, isn't that the default one from the collection ?

Use `appsec_configs` to load multiple configurations that work together:

```yaml title="/etc/crowdsec/acquis.d/appsec.yaml"
appsec_configs:
  - crowdsecurity/appsec-default    # In-band virtual patching
  - crowdsecurity/crs               # Out-of-band detection based on ModSec CRS - from crowdsecurity/appsec-crs collection
labels:
  type: appsec
listen_addr: 127.0.0.1:7422
source: appsec
```

:::info
Do not forget to `sudo cscli collections install crowdsecurity/appsec-crs`.
This collection installs OWASP CRS in out-of-band and adds a scenario to ban IPs triggering multiple rules.
:::

### Creating Custom Configurations

> Create new configuration files instead of modifying existing hub configurations. Modifying hub configurations will make them *tainted* and prevent automatic updates.

Reviewer: I think here that talking about it within an acquisition example is confusing.

```suggestion
If you want to alter the default configuration files we recomend creating a new configuration files instead of modifying existing hub configurations. Modifying hub configurations will make them *tainted* and prevent automatic updates.
```

3. Hooks from all configurations are executed in the order the configurations are listed
4. For conflicting configuration options (like `default_remediation`), the last configuration's value takes precedence

## AppSec Configuration Reference

Each AppSec configuration file defines how rules are loaded and processed. Here's the complete reference of available directives:

### Core Configuration Directives

#### `name` (required)
Unique identifier for the AppSec configuration, used for logging and referencing.

```yaml
name: custom/my-appsec-config
```

#### `inband_rules` (optional)
List of rule patterns to load as in-band rules. See [in-band rule processing](/appsec/intro.md#inband-rule-processing) for details.

```yaml
inband_rules:
  - crowdsecurity/base-config
  - crowdsecurity/vpatch-*
  - custom/critical-patches
```

#### `outofband_rules` (optional)
List of rule patterns to load as out-of-band rules. See [out-of-band rule processing](/appsec/intro.md#out-of-band-rules-processing) for details.

```yaml
outofband_rules:
  - crowdsecurity/crs
  - custom/detection-rules
```

### Remediation Configuration

> #### `default_remediation` (optional, default: "ban")

Reviewer 2: Maybe add when defined over multiple configurations using `appsec_configs` the last defined configuration using this value take priority?

Default action for in-band rules that match. Special value `allow` prevents blocking.

```yaml
default_remediation: ban      # or "allow", "captcha", etc.
```

> #### `default_pass_action` (optional, default: "allow")

Reviewer 2: Same as comment on https://github.com/crowdsecurity/crowdsec-docs/pull/856/files#r2293570008
